Benign prostatic hyperplasia,
or BPH,
refers to enlargement
of the prostate gland.
This gland is part of a man’s
reproductive system
and makes the fluid that
nourishes and carries sperm.
The prostate gland is located
between the base of the bladder
and the beginning of the penis.
It surrounds the upper part
of the urethra,
the passageway for urine
from the bladder out through the penis.
BPH often begins
after age 40.
The enlarging prostate can put
pressure on the urethra,
and interfere with normal urination.
Problems can include:
a weak stream of urine
trouble starting or maintaining
the urine stream
leaking or dribbling urine
a feeling that the bladder is not empty
frequent or sudden need to urinate
blood in the urine
sudden inability to urinate
If you have BPH,
your doctor may prescribe medicine
to stop the prostate from growing larger
or to relax muscles in the bladder,
urethra, and prostate.
BPH is sometimes treated with surgery
through the urethra or the lower
abdomen to remove prostate tissue
that is putting excess pressure on the urethra.